>> Kyle Simpson: So now that we know
we can specify something like a string.
But since it's a file,
we wanna actually treat it as a file.
And we know that we need a full path
name if we're gonna do
something with this file.
So let's pull in another built in
package from Node called path.
Minimist was a user provided one and
it would show up in the node modules
folder but path is just built into node.
It's one of the many that's just built
into node and we can use for free.
And path has a number of different
methods that are helpful for
us, but in particular, the one that we
wanna look at if we were to say filepath,
we say path.resolve and
then give it (arg.files).
And then we'll print that out.
Let's see what that does
at the command line.
If I just say file= hello, you'll notice
that it is implying that there should
be a file at this absolute location in
the directory that we're at called hello.
So it's default behavior is if
we give it a relative path,
it figures it out according to that.
If I were to do something like
../hello and we do like a relative
path that way, you notice that it
automatically figures out where that is.
So it handles all of
the relative path thing logic,
all that other stuff that you should
not actually go invent yourself.
Just use path.resolve to do that.
Now notice that it's referencing a file,
but
it's not telling us this
is just a string operation.
It's not telling us that that file exist,
just saying if you specify it according to
that, then that seems like that's
a file that you're trying to indicate.
So let's go back to our code and
let's,
>> Kyle Simpson: Look at one other
property that we might wanna
use which is called dirname.
__dirname.
If I said console.log(__dirname);
>> Kyle Simpson: That's a magic variable
that's available in all
of our Node programs.
And it tells us the working direct
not the current working directory,
it tells us the current directory of the
current file that we're accessing it in.
So if you access a file that's deep,
it'll give you the directory of that.
So, if we check this out,
run this again with just hello.
You notice that dirname is that.
So basically path.resolves, defaulting to
saying, if you don't give me something
that's absolute, then I'm gonna go ahead
and make it relative to current dirname.
If we were to give it an absolute path,
like /tmp/hello,
then it doesn't use dirname.
So it only uses dirname if
we've given it a relative path.
Okay, so now that we know we
have a path to something, and
if as long as we give it a file, we're
gonna be able to do something with it.
Let's make our command line script
that we're building or ex1 here.
Let's make it access that file and
just print the contents onto the screen.
Very simple task.
To access the file system, we're gonna
need another built in module from node
called fs for file system.
And then rather than dumping this
logic all into that if statement,
I'm gonna go ahead and write a function
down here called processFile().
It's gonna take a file path.
It's gonna do something
with that filepath.
So let's just go ahead and
call processFile with that path.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
what do we wanna do with our filepath?
We want to get the contents of the file.
There's a couple of ways that
we're going to accomplish that.
So first, what we're gonna do,
is just simply do contents
= fs.readFileSync.
Sync stands for synchronous.
So we're gonna tell it, I'm gonna wait
around while you go get this file.
And then we're gonna give it the filepath.
And then we're gonna do
console.log(contents).
>> Kyle Simpson: When we run this,
you're going to see a little bit
of a quirk about how buffers work.
So let's run this code.
And we're gonna give it a file that
actually exists and you'll notice
in your current directory you have a files
subdirectory that I've given you and
in there, there's a file called hello.txt.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we're gonna give
it a file that actually exists and
when I run this program,
we don't see the contents of the file,
we actually see the stringification
of a binary buffer.
That's because, by default,
the file system commands,
in fact, most I/O commands, they're
assuming these low-level binary buffers.
They're not assuming that you
wanna represent things as strings.
Interestingly, if we had
taken console.log out and
instead done process.stdout.write,
let's look at what happens here.
Now we're passing not a steam, but
a buffer directly to process.stdout.write.
And if we run that,
now you'll see that we passed the binary
buffer directly to the shell.
The shell knew what to
do with those bites, and
it translated them into characters.
So the reason the previous
example wasn't being translated
is because by the time
that got to the shell,
console.log had already stringfied it
into those characters that you saw.
It wasn't passing along a buffer, it was
passing along a string of characters that
said buffer 0c all that stuff.
So when we want to pass along
a buffer we've got to make
sure we're actually
dealing with a buffer and
not something that's going to
turn it into a string first.
And that's why I said earlier that
console.log does more than just put a new
line on the end.
It actually,
tries to do some processing on the values.
That's why a video console.log42 or
you do console.log'42.
It does different colored
output in your shell,
it's because console log is doing
a bunch of extra value processing.
And when we don’t want the value
processing what we really wanna do is
just process.stdout.write.
So in this particular case,
that ends up being exactly what we want.
We want process.stdout.write
instead of console.log.
Now one other thing that you could have
done if you really needed it as a string
and not as a buffer, you could’ve told the
read file to use a particular encoding.
If you pass an encoding to one of the
>> Kyle Simpson: File system
commands like a read file command, and
you give it an encoding it will say, okay,
I know you're not wanting the buffer,
you're actually wanting a real string.
So we could have said UTFA.
So this code's going to do exactly
the same thing when we run it.
No difference at all,
except under the covers,
there is a slight performance difference.
Because now what we've handed from our
Node program over to the shell environment
is a preprocessed string,
which is slightly less efficient by like
microseconds, but slightly less efficient
than handing it a stream of binary data.
That's just something to keep in mind
when you're dealing with input and
output of data.